README.md, before:

Note: this is work in progress...

## Introduction

Similar to the c preprocessor, the precompiler is a processing tool for generic code. However similar, it has much more capability (including recursive macros) that allow you to create more complex behavior. There are a lot of use cases for this that will be covered in some examples.

#### Features:

- Expandable Python api that can be used in build systems
- Support for custom lexers and virtually any language
- Uses python code in conditional checks and others commands (example `#run print("hello world")`, `#if python_code("some_string") == True: ...`)
- Recursive macros
- Powerful argument capture for macros


#### Dependencies

- ply

#### Documentation

- [Precompiler commands](https://github.com/raxvan/precompiler/blob/master/docs/main.md)
- [Python api](https://github.com/raxvan/precompiler/blob/master/docs/api_doc.md)

## Quick Example

```
//c++ source file:
#inline "#include <stdio>"
//#def ENABLE_DEBUG_LOG
int main()
{
	#ifdef ENABLE_DEBUG_LOG
		std::cout << "debug mode enabled";
	#else
		std::cout << "release mode";
	#endif

	return 0;
}

//after preprocessing:
#include <stdio>
int main()
{
	std::cout << "release mode enabled";
	return 0;
}
```

```
//glsl source file
#include "metadata.glsl"

varying lowp vec4 v_VertexColor;

#ifdef USE_COLOR
	uniform(lowp,vec4) u_DefaultColor;
	//^ 'uniform' macro can capture identifier 'u_DefaultColor' as argument
#else
	#define u_DefaultColor # 1.0
#endif
void main()
{
	gl_FragColor =  v_VertexColor * u_DefaultColor;
}

//glsl after preprocessing with 'USE_COLOR'
varying lowp vec4 v_VertexColor;
uniform lowp vec4 u_DefaultColor;
void main()
{
	gl_FragColor = v_VertexColor * u_DefaultColor;
}
//also a metadata json can be extracted:
{
	"uniforms" : [
		"u_DefaultColor" : ["lowp","vec4"]
	]
}
```

## Alternatives

https://github.com/ned14/pcpp

https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_67_0/libs/preprocessor/doc/index.html

https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/cpp/

https://www.gnu.org/software/m4/m4.html

http://mcpp.sourceforge.net/

http://math.mit.edu/~auroux/software/gpp.html

## Motivation

In c and c++ the #include system is probably one of the most controvertial feature of the proceprcessor. Misusing it can lead to long compilation times and all sort of compile errors and even crashes (combined with miused defines). That being said the c preprocessor enabled a lot of powerfull features in the code that often don't have alternatives in other laguages (python, javascript, etc), here are some of them:

- Efficent removal of debug code and asserts
- Features that can be turned on/off without affecting the final executable or performance.
- Anti piracy protection.
- Custom syntax that makes writing code easier.
- Meta-data and reflection systems inside the code.
- Custom #pragmas were used to generate multi-threaded code.

Having such a tool available to the developer with even more functionality was the main motivation behind the precompiler. Because it's language agnostic can be used in a variaty of languages and many uses-cases:

- Preprocessing glsl shaders allows you to use includes and even metadata directly inside the shader. This is often a problem and developers have all sort of approaches for this (many layers of shader stitching and processing, xml files for metadata, etc).
- Automatic generation of c++ compilation units. Knowing file dependencies can be used to generate optimal compilation units
- Powerfull code generation without macros placed everywhere


## Work in progress

The short term todo list:

- Built-in macros implementation (`__FILE__`, `__LINE__`)
- Documentation
- Tests for all errors
- Tests for more complex scenarios
- Proper dependency tree generation
- Examples

## Known issues

- Token line numbers are incorrect.
- Generated files has incorrect spacing.

Commit message:

* added quick setup guide to documentation.

README.md, after:

Note: this is work in progress...

## Introduction

Similar to the c preprocessor, the precompiler is a processing tool for generic code. However similar, it has much more capability (including recursive macros) that allow you to create more complex behavior. There are a lot of use cases for this that will be covered in some examples.

#### Features:

- Expandable Python api that can be used in build systems
- Support for custom lexers and virtually any language
- Uses python code in conditional checks and others commands (example `#run print("hello world")`, `#if python_code("some_string") == True: ...`)
- Recursive macros
- Powerful argument capture for macros


#### Dependencies

- ply

#### Documentation

- [Precompiler commands](https://github.com/raxvan/precompiler/blob/master/docs/main.md)
- [Python api](https://github.com/raxvan/precompiler/blob/master/docs/api_doc.md)

### Quick setup

You can use [docker](https://www.docker.com/):
```
git clone https://github.com/raxvan/precompiler.git precompiler
cd precompiler
./_run_tests_docker.sh
```

To get it to work outside docker you need to have python3 and [ply](https://github.com/dabeaz/ply) installed. To be able to `import precompiler` you need to add the precompiler git clone folder to `PYTHONPATH` enviroment variable.

## Quick Example

```
//c++ source file:
#inline "#include <stdio>"
//#def ENABLE_DEBUG_LOG
int main()
{
	#ifdef ENABLE_DEBUG_LOG
		std::cout << "debug mode enabled";
	#else
		std::cout << "release mode";
	#endif

	return 0;
}

//after preprocessing:
#include <stdio>
int main()
{
	std::cout << "release mode enabled";
	return 0;
}
```

```
//glsl source file
#include "metadata.glsl"

varying lowp vec4 v_VertexColor;

#ifdef USE_COLOR
	uniform(lowp,vec4) u_DefaultColor;
	//^ 'uniform' macro can capture identifier 'u_DefaultColor' as argument
#else
	#define u_DefaultColor # 1.0
#endif
void main()
{
	gl_FragColor =  v_VertexColor * u_DefaultColor;
}

//glsl after preprocessing with 'USE_COLOR'
varying lowp vec4 v_VertexColor;
uniform lowp vec4 u_DefaultColor;
void main()
{
	gl_FragColor = v_VertexColor * u_DefaultColor;
}
//also a metadata json can be extracted:
{
	"uniforms" : [
		"u_DefaultColor" : ["lowp","vec4"]
	]
}
```

## Alternatives

https://github.com/ned14/pcpp

https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_67_0/libs/preprocessor/doc/index.html

https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/cpp/

https://www.gnu.org/software/m4/m4.html

http://mcpp.sourceforge.net/

http://math.mit.edu/~auroux/software/gpp.html

## Motivation

In c and c++ the #include system is probably one of the most controvertial feature of the proceprcessor. Misusing it can lead to long compilation times and all sort of compile errors and even crashes (combined with miused defines). That being said the c preprocessor enabled a lot of powerfull features in the code that often don't have alternatives in other laguages (python, javascript, etc), here are some of them:

- Efficent removal of debug code and asserts
- Features that can be turned on/off without affecting the final executable or performance.
- Anti piracy protection.
- Custom syntax that makes writing code easier.
- Meta-data and reflection systems inside the code.
- Custom #pragmas were used to generate multi-threaded code.

Having such a tool available to the developer with even more functionality was the main motivation behind the precompiler. Because it's language agnostic can be used in a variaty of languages and many uses-cases:

- Preprocessing glsl shaders allows you to use includes and even metadata directly inside the shader. This is often a problem and developers have all sort of approaches for this (many layers of shader stitching and processing, xml files for metadata, etc).
- Automatic generation of c++ compilation units. Knowing file dependencies can be used to generate optimal compilation units
- Powerfull code generation without macros placed everywhere


## Work in progress

The short term todo list:

- Built-in macros implementation (`__FILE__`, `__LINE__`)
- Documentation
- Tests for all errors
- Tests for more complex scenarios
- Proper dependency tree generation
- Examples

## Known issues

- Token line numbers are incorrect.
- Generated files has incorrect spacing.
